Let's start with identification.
The first step in the vulnerability management process.
Where do you find vulnerabilities,
flaws or deficiencies in IT or anywhere else?
I'll use a car analogy to explain it.
Where do you see potential problems with an old car? Well, let's think about it.
Maybe it's like bald tires or old breaks,
or if there's a manufacturer recall.
Now let's look at vulnerabilities in information technology.
There could be some within code or software applications.
Our networks could allow a hacker to be able to come into
the internal network or unpatched systems could allow malware or other type of viruses.
Where do you find software vulnerabilities in IT?
How do you learn about them?
Well, there's a large community
dedicated to finding vulnerabilities and letting others know.
These sources include vendors,
for example, Microsoft with their Patch Tuesday.
Many software vendors are very diligent
in letting their clients know if there's a problem.
It's like carton manufacturers recall notice.
Another place you can learn about weaknesses or vulnerabilities
are vulnerability lists and databases.
There are websites that contain large amounts of information about known vulnerabilities.
During the exercise, you'll see two websites that contain these lists.
One of them is the NIST National Vulnerability Database, or NVD.
The other is from a company called MITRE the
Common Vulnerabilities and Exposure, or CVE list.
You'll learn more about these in the exercise.
Another place you can learn about vulnerabilities or even take part is called Bug Bounty.
Bug Bounty programs, our coders and white hat hackers
search for vulnerabilities and get paid if they find any.
Last, vulnerabilities are often identified during security assessments.
You are the person tasked into looking at the security of your IT.
May see a potential vulnerability and
how you configured your operating system or network.
These are specific to your operating system or environment.